# Docker commands

Run:

used to run a container from a image.  Below command is used to create  nginx container from nginx image.  This command will check whether the image is already downloaded in local if not it would pull the image from global repository and download to local then run the image to create the container.  This will create a container for the first time, after then it would reuse the existing container.

> docker run nginx

ps:

This is used to list the available running local containers.

> docker  ps

> docker ps -a

this -a option outputs all the running containers and stopped containers.

To stop a running container.

> docker stop container_name

To check the status of the above stopped containers,

> docker ps -a

To remove a container permanantly ,

> docker rm container_name

To check the status,

> docker ps -a

To check the available docker images in local,

> docker images

To remove docker images that you dont have plan to run,  Be aware that no images should be running which you want to remove,  You must delete all the dependent containers to be able to remove the image,

> docker rmi image_name

To only download the image and keep in local and not run the image to create container,

> docker pull nginx

To run a command on running container,

> docker exec container_name cat /etc/hosts

here it outputs content of /etc/hosts file

## Run - attach and detach

When you run ```docker run nginx``` this would run the container in attach mode, means that you cant access the terminal without stopping the container by pressing ctrl+c.

> docker run -d nginx

this command run the nginx container in detach mode.

> docker run -it nginx

this command is used to run the containe and logged in

> docker run -d --name webapp nginx:1.14-alpine

the above command run the container in the name of webapp

> docker attach container_id

To attach the running container with the cmd.
