# Commands Vs Entrypoint

When we run the below command for ubuntu,

> docker run ubuntu

The  image run and exit as soon as it got run, means when you check the running images by ``` docker ps ``` command you wont see the image running but we can see the image by running command ```docker ps -a``` as it got run  and exited.

When we run the docker image it run by picking up a task or process by the host OS,  Thats why it got run and exit as soon as the task completed. When we want to do some commands perform we have to pass the command while running the docker image as below,

> docker run ubuntu sleep 5

By the above command while running the image the container would wait for 5 seconds as the command execute in the container.  If we want to do it while running the docker without passing the command, We have to build a new image from the base image ubuntu and we should use CMD or ENTRYPOINT instruction in the docker file to run the sleep command.

```bash
Dockerfile

FROM ubuntu

CMD sleep 5
```

When we build the above image and run it

```bash
docker build -t ubuntu-sleeper .
docker run ubuntu-sleeper
```

When we run the ubuntu-sleeper image it will wait for 5 seconds without passing the command in the docker run since it has been configured in the docker file.

So now it is hard-coded in docker file.  so if we want to allow the user to pass the argument for sleep time while running the docker, we can use ENTRYPOINT instruction.  In a docker file we can have only one ENTRYPOINT.

```bash
Dockerfile

FROM ubuntu

ENTRYPOINT["sleep"]
```

now we can run the image as below,

```bash
docker build -t ubuntu-sleeper .
docker run ubuntu-sleeper 5
```

now the sleep command will pick the 5 as argument and wait for 5 seconds while running.  

Here also we have an issue if run the image without passing argument `docker run ubuntu-sleeper` it will raise error as sleep command is executed without argument.

To avoid this issue we can use ENTRYPOINT and CMD instructions together as below,

```bash
Dockerfile

FROM ubuntu

ENTRYPOINT["sleep"]

CMD["5"]
```

now if we haven't pass the command parameter it will pick the parameter from the next command instruction. If we specify the command parameter in the run command it will replace the command parameter with the specified parameter.


We can specify Entrypoint in the run command and it will replace the dockerfile's entry point.

```bash
docker run --entrypoint sleep ubuntu-sleeper 5
```
